1)EC2 ---> Elastic compute cloud 

Ans : It's an Operation system or Vitual Machine in AWS 

2)what is firewall ?

Ans : firewall doing block the ip address & port

3)What is keypair ?

Ans : A key pair is a combination of a public key that is used to encrypt data and a private key that is used to decrypt data

Public Ip ---> will be reachable to any machines 

4) why use systemctl restart httpd ?

Ans : systemctl restart using refresh the  particular services.

5) What is user data ?

Ans : It's provides a scripts before machine has been build.

6) what is instance purchasing options ?

Ans : On demand instance 
      reserved instance 
      spot instance 
      dedicated host 

7) On demand instance ?

Ans : when ever we want we can purchase the instance and when ever does needed we can terminate that is called on demand instance. (price standard 100 rs )

8) Reserved Instance ?

Ans : Reserved Instance if you confidential going to used to instance one year or two years purchase so we are paying cost upfront they will reduce some discount.

9) Spot instance ?

Ans : If it's available in spot they will give you.

       spot instance cost very low 
       AWS side not recommand 
       spot instance 12 hours only data available then automatically terminate.
       spot instance only using testing purpose. 
10) dedicated host ?

Ans : Dedicate server own application only 
      dedicate server cost is very high 


11) what are the type of instance purchasing option ?

  Ans : * General purpose 
        * compute optimized 
        * memory optimized 
        * Accelerated computing 
        * storage optimized 
        * HPC optimized 
       
12) if machine running we can change RAM & processor ?

Ans : No, machine is running we can't able change RAM & processor 

13) how to check RAM & processor ?

Ans : free -m 
      cat /proc/cpuinfo

14) what is AMI ?

Ans : AMI is a master copy of EC2 instance with common softwares installed in it.

15) AMI processor ?

Ans : One Instance install all type of software then that instance convert to image or (AMI) after. then we go to AMI image depoly the machain showing all type of software.

16 ) Advantage of AMI ?

1) Saving timing 
2) entery template backup using 

17) what is Launch template ?

Ans : IN Lauch template we can pre configure all the required setup like choosing security group, key pair.

18) what is type of storage ?

Ans : Elastic block storage 
      Elastic file storage 
      simple storage service 
      glacier storage 

19) What is Elastic block storage ?

Ans : data storaged block by block 
      we have use to EBS for critical application
      EBS use only accross zone data 
      only for single zone 
      EBS is cost high 
20 ) Elastic file Storage ?

 Common storage called by EFS like software, logs, os data,files,filder
 retrive the data from file name 
 non critical Application use for EFS 
 we can't use accross region 
 we can use same region across zone 

21) Simple storage service ?

Ans : we can use accross region like google drive 
      simple storage data stored object
      S3 without internet we can't be use it
      non critical job store in S3
22) Glacier ? 
 
Ans : Comparess or zip data maintance the old dara 
      Audit purpose using archival storage 
      Archival storage is cost low 

23) what is file system ?

Ans : empty hard disk convert to block that is called filesystem.

24)       


